<!--- metadata

title: Still trying to find the right format for the diary
date: 2025-04-25
slug: 002
id: 002
week:  Week 18
summary: This is the first official week of the hacker diary, and I mostly just trying to figure out in what format I will write, what to include, what not and where to start. Still little bit lost at the moment.
tags: [ "Getting Started" ]

--->

## Focus of the week

*What did you spend time thinking about, reading, trying?*

This is the first official week of the hacker diary, and I mostly just trying to figure out in what format I will write, what to include, what not and where to start. I was thinking, do I start from the fundamentals like going trough the basic tools like NMAP or Metasploit, but honestly, it feels quite tedious, so I opted to this more raw style of writing for this weeks post.

This was also the week when I made the last small fixes to the diary part of the portfolio. I also think that I don't have that much time this week for anything else, since we are having midterms, and I have to study for those.

Even though this week there isn't much here, some topics that interested me were:

    - VoIP vulnerabilities
    - Bluetooth vulnerabilities
    - Building my own toolbox
    - <https://sectools.org/>
    - <https://www.kitploit.com/>

This may not be related to cybersecurity directly, but I have taken interest also in FPV drones. I am considering if I should build myself one as well.

## How I Felt

For this weeks diary post I did not feel that motivated. Don't get me wrong, I'm really exited that I build this diary section, and I am really happy how it turned out, but it's just really confusing. I feel like I'm quite lost, because I don't have a format for this diary yet, and I have the midterms, so there is a lot going on right now.

Also working on a small laptop is not fun either. There are some limitations, what I can do with this right now, and thats stops some of the projects and ideas from even starting.

## Save for Later

Some unknown areas for me I want to explore more:

- Pretext Engineering in Red Team Engagements
    - Focuses on crafting long-term social engineering identities using passive OSINT, psychological mapping, and trust building. Moves beyond phishing into multi-week trust exploitation.
- Bastion Host and Jump Box Exploitation Techniques
    - Explores methods for pivoting through poorly hardened jump hosts, including SSH agent forwarding abuse, TTY escape, or local file residue. Critical in segmented network attacks.

## Weekly Reflection

For next week, I'm going to try to figure out what I will actually hack and where I will focus. I do not want to drift in between ideas. I want to learn and try new things. I think I will focus my time on Hack The Box machines, but we'll see.
