<!--- metadata

title: Making a ghost USB stick
date: 2025-05-11
slug: 004
id: 004
week:  Week 20
summary: Explored the concept of a ghost USB stick inspired by spy series, brainstormed project ideas like a USB OS stick, CCTV monitoring software, and a log dashboard. Worked on a mental framework to improve productivity and felt more in control by week's end.
tags: [ "Ghost Drive", "Mental Progress", "Project Ideas" ]

--->

## Focus of the week

This week while watching a series about spies, I noticed that one of the characters used an USB to boot a communications application. This interested me immediately, and I wanted to figure out if it's possible to have ghost USB stick. Meaning even if someone knows I plug it in, you can't retrive the data about what I'm doing.

So first I had to figure out what systems monitor while using a USB drive. With this information I can figure out, what I need to change and build to make the actions not traceable. For now this will be a theoretical topic, because I am not capable of building this currently, but I want to know if it even is viable.

Being continued next week..

## What Pulled My Attention

I had many project ideas this week. First was the USB OS stick. Then I had an idea of building a custom software for monitoring CCTV Cameras. And lastly a lightweight digital trap and log dashboard application.

## How I Felt

I felt like I struggled still this week with actually doing anything. So I started to work out a mental plan for myself. Kind of a framework on how to do things structured way, so I worked on mental framework. It's basically a lot of questions and short sentences, of what I need to look out for, and what questions to ask, when I get stuck.

After that I felt a lot more in control, and now I just need to test it in action, and start rewiring my brain.

## Save for Later

- The log dashboard project. Definitely a thing I want to do, but don't have time, knowledge or resources for that right now.
- Also the CCTV software, is a project I really want to do, but is not viable right now.

## Weekly Reflection

Made mental progress definitely, but now start doing actual progress aswell.
